Today's number, 47.6.
That's how many hours of sleep the
average American gets each week. Today's
other number is zero. That's how many
hours of sleep Michael Sailor got last
week.
Welcome to Profy Markets. I'm Edson. It
is February 11th. Let's check in on
yesterday's market vitals. The S&P 500
and the Nasdaq declined on weaker than
expected retail sales data for December.
Financial stocks also dropped after
Altruist released an AI tax planning
tool. Charles Schwab fell 8% and Raymond
James fell 9%. Meanwhile, the Dow
notched its third record close. Spotify
soared 15% after reporting record user
growth and tripling profits from a year
ago. And finally, Paramount sweetened
its hostile offer for Warner Brothers
Discovery. It offered to pay the $2.8
billion termination fee that WBD will
owe Netflix if the deal falls apart. WBD
stock rose more than 2% on that news.
Okay, what else is happening?
Google just executed one of the biggest
corporate debt offerings in history. On
Monday, the company priced its largest
ever US dollar bond sale, raising $20
billion across seven different
maturities. That deal drew more than
hundred billion dollars in investor
orders, one of the most heavily
subscribed order books ever, for a
corporate bond sale. The next day,
Google raised another 11.5 billion in
sterling and Swiss Franks. The sterling
deal included an ultra rare $ 1.4
billion hundred-year bond, which
attracted close to 10 times the amount
offered in investor demand. All in,
Google raised nearly $ 32 billion in
debt in less than 24 hours. The
borrowing spree came days after the
company announced plans to roughly
double its capex for 2026. And the
spending surge extends across big tech.
Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Meta plan
to spend a combined $660 billion in AI
infrastructure in 2026. That is up 60%
from 2025. Okay, here to help us break
down this Google debt offering, we're
speaking with Gil Lurria, head of
technology research at DAD Davidson.
Gil, good to see you.
>> Good to see you. So, Google just raised
nearly $32 billion worth of debt in less
than 24 hours, one of the largest debt
offerings in a really long time. Take us
through this. Why does this matter? What
does this mean for Google?
>> There's tactical and strategic aspects
to this. So part of this is treasury
management. Uh Google has plenty of
cash. They they probably have 80 billion
of net cash. Uh they can cover all of
their capex needs with the cash flow
they have from their traditional
advertising business. But they're
choosing to borrow money to create more
capacity to this is very lowcost
borrowing for them and it aligns them
with where they need the cash. Sometimes
you have cash in one country and you
actually need in another. And so this is
a lot of this is tactical treasury
management. Some of this is strategic
though, right? Let's not forget that
Microsoft, Amazon, Google, Open AAI,
Anthropic, Meta, Elon are all in this
big competition to be the biggest
winners in AI, which is going to be a
very expensive competition that many of
them believe is going to be winner take
all or at least winner take most. They
believe that because their existing
markets are like that. So what they're
trying to do, and Google is doing this
by issuing a hundred-year bond, is to
say, "We're in it for the long haul. We
are going to spend as much as it takes
to win." And they're not the first ones
to do this. Uh Mr. Zuckerberg at Meta uh
signaled the same thing by keeping by
increasing his capex continuously and by
paying tens of billion dollars for
talent. I'd forget he paid $14 billion
to hire Alexander Wang. So, we're having
this kind of signaling in the market by
these really large players that are
saying, you know what, we're going to
outlast everybody. You should blink
before we do.
>> Is this of concern at all? The fact
that, you know, we know that they're
spending all of this money on capex and
it just exploded. We just learned in
their previous earnings. They're going
to spend $660 billion on AI
infrastructure in 2026.
Something we've been saying a long time
is, you know, that's a lot of money, but
this is money that they have. Now we're
seeing these gigantic debt offerings,
which is basically them saying, "No, now
we need to borrow money to do this." Is
that a concern or is this kosher? I
would say that it's a concern for
whoever loses, right? Whoever wins, all
this capex will have been a great
investment. If there's any losers in
that group that I mentioned, they're
going to be stuck with a lot of
infrastructure that they're going to
have to sell at a discount. So, that's
the concern. But in terms of borrowing,
especially if we're talking about
Microsoft, Amazon, Google, and to the
extent Apple ever gets into the game,
they have so much cash flow, so much
cash on hand that them borrowing is more
a flex than anything else, right? The
banks always prefer lending money to
companies that don't need to borrow. And
this is a great example of that. Google
doesn't need to borrow which is why it's
so easy for them to borrow a lot at a
very inexpensive price and again signal
to the market that they have a lot more
capacity than just their cash flow which
by the way is huge anyway the market's
reaction was you know tepid stock was
down a little bit after the the debt
offering very different from what we saw
last week when Oracle made the same move
and you saw just a giant crash in the
stock down around 9% % is that markets
telling us we think Google does have the
capacity to borrow right now and we
don't think Oracle does.
>> Yeah, Google has the cash and the cash
flow to support paying back that
interest for a very long time. By the
way, Google has been down the last
couple of days. There's starting to be a
reversion to the mean, right? Google is
multiple is now in the 30s. Microsoft
and Nvidia in the low 20s in spite of
the fact that the growth rates are
similar and I would argue Microsoft and
Nvidia is just as well positioned in the
AI race. So we're starting to see
aversion to the mean. Oracle is very
different. Oracle really painted
themselves into a corner. They committed
to an infrastructure buildout that
required them to to raise a lot of
capital in order to execute. They don't
have excess cash flow. They're really
stretched right now. But the good news
is it looks like they will be successful
in the raise, which means they'll be
able to deliver. And if OpenAI can raise
their own hundred billion dollars by the
end of the quarter, which is the most
important thing in AI right now, Open AI
will be able to pay for that Oracle
capacity and and we can all breathe a
sigh of relief for Oracle, which again
really was in a little bit of a bind.
>> Yeah, we should mention I I found this
fascinating. you guys over at DA
Davidson, you upgraded Oracle to a
buyer, which is interesting because
you're one of the people who's been kind
of sounding the alarm on the on the
position that Oracle has found
themselves in over the past few months
to take us through the upgrade on the
stock. Why have you regraded to buy?
Yeah, so we sounded the alarm when the
stock was $345,
trading 45 times earnings, and Open AI
looked to be losing momentum. What's
happened since then is first of all
Oracle stock went down to 143 18 times
earnings and then OpenAI very
importantly a few things happened there.
One is OpenAI started to focus instead
of being spread too thin making promises
they can't keep and and trying a lot of
different things they're refocused on
their frontier model and on Chad GPT
which which you can tell by the fact
they're starting to advertise. Second
thing that happened is because Google
made such a splash with Gemini and just
reported really good earnings this week
that really scared Microsoft, Amazon,
and Nvidia, which means they're very
likely now to give OpenAI that hundred
billion dollars. And then finally,
OpenAI is probably pretty close to to
introducing another model that'll be
another leap forward should become the
state-ofthe-art again. So if OpenAI has
state-of-the-art model is focused on the
business and can raise the capital then
it will be able to pay all those bills
that we were worried about. So that's
what's changed. Oracle stock price went
down a lot. People were expecting OpenAI
to not be able to deliver. And because
OpenAI's gotten their act together, now
it looks like OpenAI will be able to pay
those Oracle bills and again bail Oracle
out of a very tough situation. The other
thing just before we let you go that I
want to hear from you on the the the SAS
is dead, software is dead thesis uh
which really played out last week. All
the software stocks got absolutely
crushed. We've seen a little bit of a
rebound this week. Not not fully or not
totally equally distributed across the
software stocks, but as a whole tech is
rebounding. Software is rebounding a
little bit. Uh where do you stand on
this debate at this point? People said
last week software is dead, AI killed
it. Where do you stand today? AI is a
major disruptive force in all of
technology in the whole economy and
specifically for software. What happens
when you have major disruptive forces is
that excellent companies and good
businesses execute well and win and
companies that are not very good and not
very good markets end up go falling by
the wayside. That's true in software as
well. But what happened last couple of
weeks is that all software stocks sold
regardless if they're in the first or
the second category. And we love that
because that's what creates
opportunities. I, you know, I've been an
a software analyst for a long time. I've
always resisted putting revenue
multiples on any company, including
software companies. We don't have to
anymore. These companies are now trading
on free cash flow, on their actual
profit. And you had an opportunity last
week to buy unbelievable companies like
Snowflake and Data Dog at 35 times cash
flow. Microsoft at 20 times earnings
because of this onslaught on all of
software that again ignores the fact
that data dog snowflake massively big
winners in software. Microsoft massively
big winner in AI, but the sentiment
against software was so negative that
really good companies that are executing
well and are well positioned for AI were
selling alongside companies where the
disruption may actually hurt them even
though they have some years to execute.
I understand that part. But again, I
love the opportunity to buy companies
growing 15, 20, 30% on a multiple of
cash flow. We've never had that and
that's a great opportunity for
investors.
>> You and I agree as usual. Gil Laura,
head of technology research at DA
Davidson. Thank you, Gil.
>> Thank you. We'll be right back. And if
you're enjoying the show so far, be sure
to like and subscribe to the Profod
YouTube channel at the link below.
We're back with property markets.
Memory chip stocks are on a relentless
tear right now. Shares of the three
industry leaders have soared in the past
year. Samsung is up 200%. Micron is up
300%.
SKH Highix is up 340%.
All of the memory chip stocks are
soaring. And the reason is because AI
data centers are devouring memory chips,
leading to shortages across the rest of
the tech industry. Meanwhile, shares in
Qualcomm and ARM declined after they
warned that these memory constraints
could cap smartphone production. Apple's
quarterly earnings were clouded by the
same concern. So, what are these memory
chips exactly and why are they so
precious right now? Here to answer these
questions about chips, we're speaking
with Doug Olaflin, president of Semi
analysis. Doug, thank you for joining us
on Profy Markets.
>> Thanks for having me. Um, more than
happy to answer whatever questions you
guys have.
>> We have plenty. So, chip stocks are
soaring this year. Uh, memory chip
stocks that is. Can we just start with
the basics here? like what do memory
chips actually do?
>> So, uh like the word implies, memory
often stores something for recalling
later. Kind of like how our memory
works. Now, there's two key uh key
styles of memory, which is DRAM, which
is uh non-persistent, meaning it works
while while it's plugged in, and there's
something called NAND or or actually
there's also hard drives as well, but
for most people really care about DRAM
and NAND. Now, NAND is non-persistent,
meaning that you can unplug it and it
will still hold your information. So,
whenever you turn off your computer, all
your files are still there. That's on
NAND. But, um, when you turn on your
computer, most of the time it's using
faster memory, which is called DRAM. So,
those are the big categories of memory.
And there's actually kind of this newer
category called high HPM called high
bandwidth memory. But, uh, you know,
don't want to get too in the weeds too
quickly.
>> So, why are these uh, memory stocks
tearing right now?
>> Yeah. So I think there's a little bit of
history that helps uh set the context.
So memory is notoriously cyclical. Uh
pretty much every year there's new new
memory demand comes online for more
data. But um when new memory supply
comes online often it comes on in chunks
of 40 to 50%. So what happens is you
know supply overshoots demand boom price
goes down. Demand overshoots supply boom
price goes up. We are in what is
probably the most historic memory cycle
of all time. Um, demand specifically
from AI has has skyrocketed and
effectively we just came out of the
single worst memory cycle ever. And when
you have a bad memory cycle, pretty much
your your desire to spend on new capital
equipment or new fab like clean room
space is very low. And so pretty much no
one wanted to spend because they're
burning all this money. And then boom, a
giant demand vector had uh hit the
industry. And so now everyone's kind of
racing to invest in supply, but there's
literally no supply for the next two
years. And so you have that perfect
supply demand mismatch. And that's the
reason why memory prices have gone up
100%. And it's like it's going to hurt
most basic consumer consumer products
like your phone for example, the price
in your phone of the of the DM, even the
NAND, the DM specifically is going to go
up like 100%. Um, and so that's kind of
this crazy dynamic that's happening
because of AI. AI is just demanding so
much memory that it's kind of uh you
know completely throwing the supply
demand in balance off.
>> In an interesting way, it seems to
mirror what we've been seeing with
energy prices where you have this
massive AI buildout, all of these data
centers that consume huge amounts of
energy and one of the side effects of
that is that energy costs go up. What
you're saying is these data centers also
consume huge amounts of memory chips. we
don't have enough memory chips and
therefore that might also increase the
price of consumer goods. Is that right?
>> Yeah, for sure. It will definitely
increase the price of consumer goods.
Um, honestly, we think the the it's kind
of crazy because, you know, we do some
here analysis, we do actually do like a
lot of work and maybe this is a little
bit of a rabbit hole. We do a lot of
work on the the energy pricing side of
things too. Um, ironically, most of the
energy pricing that you're seeing in the
grids, uh, the like essentially what is
recognized to the consumer is actually
the past few years of investment.
Honestly, given how much demand there
is, I think most of them energy prices
so far have very little AI to do with
it. But the energy prices down the
pipeline now that's all AI. So, it's
kind of interesting. You're already
seeing these price increases. And this
is even before the true demand vector
came in. That's a complete side um kind
of like a side tangent but yeah that's
that's really what happened. there was
essentially no supply and I think the
the place that we're seeing like our
business is very focused on like kind of
seeing where uh AI impacts chips and
semiconductors hence semi analysis right
and we think the biggest bottleneck in
the market right now today is memory and
that's just because there's so much
demand and there's so little supply and
the supply response takes often 18 24
months and we're you know I think we're
6 to 12 months in into that so we have
at least 12 months before more supply
comes online
>> so some of the memory names we're
talking about here. Western Digital,
Micron, Seagate, SanDisk. SanDisk is up
1,500% in the past year. Kind of
unbelievable.
Do you expect that this is going to
continue over the next 12 months? It
sounds like you think that the chips
themselves will keep going up in price.
Would you expect that the the demand for
the stocks that make the chips will also
continue to go up? Well, this is where
uh memory stocks are kind of like a
whole, you know, a whole like 40 chest
altogether because what happens is
stocks are very very forwardlooking,
right? And the thing that really matters
is right now every day, um the stocks
have been ripping on the fact that spot
or contract price effectively has been
going up. Now, what's going to happen is
that's going to continue to happen until
there's real funible like a real supply
response. And so, we just don't see it
until the first half of 27. We think
that memory prices will continue to go
up quite meaningfully into the rest of
this year and then in the first half of
27 we expect a meaningful amount of
supply to come online and we just don't
think that cross is going to happen.
Historically what happens is when the
first um supply starts to come online
the stocks tank. There's no other way to
put it right going up this amount of uh
this like you know precipitously is
often not sustainable. And I think
everyone in the industry would tell you
every everyone understands this is not a
sustainable price and this this just
takes capitalism to fix it, right?
Supply will react to demand. But at this
exact moment, we're at this like crazy
parabolic thing. And I think right now
we see no reason that memory prices
won't continue to rip for the rest of
the year. And so that's kind of like the
right that's how you'd think about it is
I would expect them to continue to do
well but maybe not at the past rate
they've done well especially out of the
worst cycle of all time into the best
cycle of all time that kind of
inflection is usually where the stocks
go crazy. How I think about it actually
if we're talking about like from pure
stock perspective if you um if you think
about like Nvidia's giant year two years
ago right when Nvidia uh the stock went
up like you know I don't I don't know
the numbers off my head and then last
year honestly Nvidia did outperform the
market meaningfully but we're talking 35
40%. Right meaningfully above the market
but not quite as much. I think some of
that inflated expectation is going to
come out. Now that obviously doesn't
mean the stocks are going down. In fact
I'm very bullish but I don't expect the
same setup going forward. All right,
fascinating stuff. Doug Olaflin,
president of Semi Analysis. Thanks for
joining us, Doug.
>> Yeah, thank you for having me.
>> We'll be right back. And if you're
enjoying the show so far, be sure to
like and subscribe to the Profod YouTube
channel at the link below.
We're back with property markets.
Well, all this talk of AI and chips and
data centers is honestly getting a
little bit exhausting. If you watched
the Super Bowl, you'll have noticed that
one in four of the ads that were aired
featured AI in some capacity. Meanwhile,
AI is being mentioned in more earnings
calls than ever before. Also, Google's
search interest in AI is already twice
as high as it was just 18 months ago.
And throughout this dialogue, a lot of
people are asking a lot of different
questions such as how are we going to
use AI? How will it be generated? Who
will be the winners? Who will be the
losers? These are some of the most
important questions of our time right
now and that's why we are covering AI so
aggressively. But there is one more
question that is arguably more important
than any of the others. And it's a
question that investors need to start
taking seriously. And that is how many
Americans actually want AI? That might
seem like a stupid maybe simple question
until you dig into the numbers and you
start to realize that increasingly
across America, people actually don't
want AI.
More than 80% of Americans say today
that they are concerned about AI. More
than 75% say that it could pose a threat
to humanity. More than half say it's
going to negatively impact our ability
to do things on our own. And perhaps
most importantly, less than half of
Americans currently have a favorable
view of AI right now. Put another way,
AI is broadly unpopular in America. Now
to be fair, this happens a lot with new
technologies. People find it scary. They
say it's too much. They push back and
then ultimately the technology ends up
being so useful that we end up using it
anyway. And in all likelihood, that's
probably what will happen with AI. But
we should also recognize it's getting to
the point where AI is so disliked that
now actual obstacles are being put in
place to prevent this massive AI
buildout that we keep on talking about.
Most notably, we're seeing this in
politics. You might remember a few
months ago I said that I thought data
centers were about to become the new
political football because one thing
about data centers, huge costs on energy
and temporary job creation through the
construction, but once it is built
actually the local community doesn't
really benefit from it. And as you say,
it's a robot that's that's building
shareholder value for the people who own
AI stocks. And so I I it's becoming a
really interesting and I think this is
going to become more prominent in the
political sphere. But it's this nimi
versus yimi debate. Well, we are now
seeing this play out. Just last week,
Ronda Santis discussed a new proposal to
prevent data center construction in
Florida. These hypers scale data centers
use as much power just to power the data
centers as a city of half a million
people. You have this much power that
you're capable of generating. You have
this much demand, right? And that's
that's kind of where we are. If you
double the demand,
unless you also double the supply,
prices are going to go up. Now, Dantis'
argument is that data centers, while
they might seem good for a local
economy, they're actually quite bad for
a local economy. Why? Because they don't
really employ people. And more
importantly, they send electric costs
through the roof. Both of these
statements, by the way, are true. You
look at OpenAI's new Stargate data
center, for example. That's going to
employ about 100 people. That is roughly
a third of the number of employees that
work at a standard Walmart location.
Meanwhile, electric bills are indeed
going up in areas where data centers
have been built. The price of
electricity has risen roughly 250%
over the past 5 years. And this is why
these anti-data center movements are now
piling up around the country. In
Michigan, protesters have filed several
lawsuits against one of those Stargate
data centers. Over in Arizona, the town
of Morirana has elected to block a data
center as well. In Virginia, more than
50 data center regulation bills have
been proposed this year. And in Georgia,
lawmakers have suggested simply banning
data centers across the entire state.
All around America, people are slowly
but surely deciding that they actually
don't like AI. They don't like the CEOs.
They don't like the companies. And they
especially don't like the data centers.
And we can have all of these businessy
conversations about AI. We can talk
about energy capacity and enterprise
usage and memory storage etc etc. But
the biggest conversation we are not
having is how many people actually want
this. This is what investors should be
tackling and it's also what investors
should be pricing. What does America
disliking AI actually do to valuations?
What does it do to earnings? What does
it do to cash flows? These are real
questions, but so far we seem to be
treating them as footnotes or background
information. But ultimately, the answers
to those questions will be what
determines the future of AI. Like any
other product, AI success will be a
function of how many people like it. And
increasingly,
that number is going down.
Thanks for listening to Prophy Markets
from Profy Media. If you liked what you
heard, subscribe to our YouTube channel
and tune in tomorrow for more.